RDBTeach: An open source software to teach and learn query languages for relational databases.

Why:
	I wrote this program because I was studying database query languages and using WinRDBI for it. But WinRDBI has a few problems:
		* As is written in Java, the GUI look'n feel quite doesn't make it, but that is a minor flaw
		* Although written in Java, it isn't really multiplatform (The prolog library they do use doesn't work in Linux with the lastest version, or in Mac OS/X in any version, for example)
		* Has some problems relating to error checking (sometimes the error is only "check input", and sometimes the parser locks out and you've to reset the soft)
		* You cannot modify it, because it's closed source!

	Anyway, do't get me wrong. I LOVE WinRDBI: it's free, fast and it works! But I wanted to do something better, like better error checking and syntax highlighting (already working! (sorta)), and of course, make it open source so anyone could benefit from it and change it to his own liking.

When:
	For now, RDBTeach only supports relational algebra, but it's easily modifiable. I'm planning to support at least relational algebra and relational calculus (tuples and domain).

What:
	The code is written in Perl, and uses wxWidgets for the GUI to get native look'n feel, so you need Alien-wxWidgets and Wx packages. The parser is written using Parse::RecDescent, and if you're using ActiveState, you need to get the module from CPAN and NOT from PPM. PPM Parse::RecDescent module has a bug (well, any other than last version) that doesn't let my grammars compile.

	RDBTeach uses the GREAT Silk icon set of Mark James from FamFamFam (http://www.famfamfam.com). Code is documented using the excelent NaturalDocs (http://www.naturaldocs.org). It's my first time using it, so if you see something that can be done in a better way, don't be afraid to tell me, I'll be thankful!

	Keep in mind that the soft is in VERY early stages. Syntax highlighting works (more or less), it has a *nice* GUI (just native to the system) but the error checking it's very bad at the moment. Also, my Perl skills maybe aren't the best out there...

	Anyway, at the moment the GUI is exactly the same as WinRDBI, and the files (relational algebra and database, for now) format too. I've done this on purpose, just to make it functional and appealing to WinRDBI already-users-out-there. In the future this will change (or not ;)).

Whom:
	If you'd like to help, please be my guest! Just in case, please send me an email to <uiomae@gmail.com>. And thanks!


Copyright © 2008 - Uiomae
